.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH mm-delay 1 "February 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mm-delay - delay all network packets to and from a shell by user-specified amount
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm-delay
\fIdelay\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
mm-delay is a network emulation tool that emulates a link with a fixed
minimum round trip time (RTT). mm-delay uses \fBclone\fP(2) to fork a new shell in
a distinct network namespace. Every program run inside mm-delay has its IP
datagrams routed over a virtual network interface. All packets to and from an
application running inside mm-delay are delayed by \fIdelay\fP, the one-way per-packet
delay specified by the user in milliseconds. mm-delay can be nested within
\fBlinkshell\fP(1) to flexibly create links with a user-supplied one-way delay
and a user-supplied link rate.

To exit mm-delay, simply type "exit" or CTRL-D inside mm-delay. 

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
mm-delay can create a new shell such that all packets to and from a program
run within this shell are delayed by 10ms in each direction:
$ mm-delay 10

mm-delay
[...] (copyright notice omitted)

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mahimahi (1),
.BR mm-link (1),
.BR mm-webrecord (1),
.BR mm-webreplay (1).

Project home page:
.I http://mahimahi.mit.edu

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mm-delay was written by Ravi Netravali <ravinet@mit.edu>, Anirudh Sivaraman <anirudh@csail.mit.edu>, and Keith Winstein <keithw@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to \fImahimahi@mit.edu\fP.
