.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH mm-webreplay 1 "February 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mm-webreplay - mirror/replay a website previously recorded using \fBrecordshell\fP(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm-webreplay
\fIdirectory\fP
[\-\- command...]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
mm-webreplay uses content recorded by \fBrecordshell\fP(1) to accurately
mirror a website. All recorded pages in the user-specified
recorded content folder, \fIdirectory\fP, can be reloaded in mm-webreplay.
\fIdirectory\fP must be specified using the absolute path.

mm-webreplay uses \fBunshare\fP(2) with the CLONE_NEWNET flag to create a shell in an isolated network
namespace. This isolation prevents the accidental download of resources over
the Internet when replaying page loads.

mm-webreplay mimics the multi-origin nature of most web sites today (also known
as server sharding) by spawning an Apache Web server for each distinct IP/port
pair seen while recording. This prevents the browser from using a single TCP
connection to download resources belonging to different web servers, something
that cannot be done in practice today due to the point-to-point nature of TCP.
mm-webreplay binds its web servers to the same IP address and port number as
their recorded counterparts by creating a separate dummy network interface for
each distinct server IP.

All HTTP requests made within mm-webreplay are handled by one of mm-webreplay's
servers, each of which can access to the user-specified recorded folder. Each
Apache server is configured to redirect all incoming requests to a CGI script
on the appropriate server using Apache’s mod_rewrite module. The CGI script
running on each web server compares the incoming HTTP request to the set of all
recorded request-response pairs in the user-specified recorded folder to locate
a matching HTTP response. For this comparison, mm-webreplay considers the Host,
Accept-Language, Accept-Encoding, Connection, and Referer HTTP header fields,
while ignoring time-sensitive header fields (eg. If-Modified-Since, Cookie,
If-Unmodified-Since). If a Request-URI has a query string, mm-webreplay first
finds all matching object names (ignoring the query string) and then selects
the response pertaining to the longest matching query string.  If an requested
object has no match in the user-specified recorded folder, the CGI script
returns an HTTP "Connection: close".

The Apache web servers are configured to speak either HTTP or SPDY (using
mod_spdy 0.9.3.3-386) and use mod_ssl to handle HTTPS traffic.

To reduce the number of unmatched requests when replaying web pages, we recommend
using the same browser for both record and replay.

To exit mm-webreplay, simply type "exit" or CTRL-D in the generated shell.
.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
mm-webreplay can create a new shell which mimics the structure of a recorded site (stored
in a directory named "recorded_content"). All pages loaded from this shell will use the
recorded content:
$ mm-webreplay recorded_content

mm-webreplay
[...] (copyright notice omitted)

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mahimahi (1),
.BR mm-webrecord (1),
.BR mm-delay (1),
.BR mm-link (1).

Project home page:
.I http://mahimahi.mit.edu

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mm-webreplay was written by Ravi Netravali <ravinet@mit.edu>, Anirudh Sivaraman <skanirudh@csail.mit.edu>, and Keith Winstein <keithw@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to \fImahimahi@mit.edu\fP.
