.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH mm-webrecord 1 "February 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mm-webrecord - record all HTTP content sent to and from a shell for subsequent replay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm-webrecord
\fIdirectory\fP
[\-\- command...]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
mm-webrecord creates a shell in a new network namespace using the \fBclone\fP(2)
system call. All HTTP requests and responses sent during actual page loads from
mm-webrecord are parsed and stored in \fIdirectory\fP, in a structured format to
facilitate replay (see \fBreplayshell\fP(2)). \fIdirectory\fP will be created
by mm-webrecord and must not already exist. \fIdirectory\fP can be specified
using relative or absolute path.

mm-webrecord adds an iptables rule to forward all TCP traffic from inside
mm-webrecord to a man-in-the-middle proxy.  This proxy parses, stores, and
relays all HTTP traffic both to and from a program running inside mm-webrecord.
The proxy accepts each TCP connection request from a program run inside
mm-webrecord and terminates the TCP connection.  It then determines the original
destination address of the TCP connection request using the SO_ORIGINAL_DST
socket option and connects to the original destination on the program's behalf. 

The proxy runs an HTTP parser which parses all traffic to and from a program
running in mm-webrecord to determine HTTP requests and responses from TCP
segments. Once an HTTP request and its corresponding response have both been
parsed, the proxy associates the request to the response and writes the pair to
disk using Protocol Buffers, a seralizing library for structured data.

mm-webrecord handles SSL traffic similarly using OpenSSL. To establish a
connection with the program running inside mm-webrecord, the proxy uses a fake
self-signed certificate with the common name "Mahimahi". The proxy also makes
an SSL connection request to the original destination. 

Intercepting secure connections in this manner causes two problems with modern
browsers.  First, the common name on the certificate presented to the browser
("Mahimahi") differs from the common name expected by the browser (the URL that
the browser is attempting to connect to). Second, browsers only accept
certificates signed by any one of a list of trusted Certificate Authorities.
This triggers a warning within the browser for which the user must add an
exception.

At the end of a recording session, the user-specified record folder consists of
a set of files: one for each request-response pair seen during that recording
session. Each file is stored as a protobuf which includes the complete HTTP
request and response (headers and body) as well as the connection's original
destination ip address and port number, and the protocol used (HTTP or HTTPS).   

mm-webrecord is compatible with any unmodified browser because recording is done
at the packet level. Additionally, HTTP/HTTPS traffic generated from file
download tools like Wget can be recorded.

To exit mm-webrecord, simply type "exit" in the generated shell.

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
mm-webrecord can create a new shell such that all HTTP traffic to and from a
program run from this shell are recorded and stored in a directory named
"recorded_content": $ mm-webrecord recorded_content

mm-webrecord
[...] (copyright notice omitted)

.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mahimahi (1),
.BR mm-webreplay (1),
.BR mm-delay (1),
.BR mm-link (1).

Project home page:
.I http://mahimahi.mit.edu

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mm-webrecord was written by Ravi Netravali <ravinet@mit.edu>, Anirudh Sivaraman <skanirudh@csail.mit.edu>, and Keith Winstein <keithw@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to \fImahimahi@mit.edu\fP.
